boy when you think you know everything
there is to know about your body
scientists go and discover something
totally new
here are their most recent findings just
like salamanders regrow their tails
humans might be able to regenerate
cartilage that's rubber like stuff
around your joints last year scientists
discovered that cartilage could repair
itself most effectively at the ankle not
that well in the knee and least
effectively in the hip your brain is
constantly processing tons of visual
information about 600 million bits per
eye it all starts when the light goes
through the cornea your eyes clear
protective outer layer after several
transformations the light turns into
electrical signals they travel to your
brain and it interprets them into images
you see it takes milliseconds for this
super complicated process to happen oh
by the way your other organs of
perception analyze a bit less
information your skin.when million bits
of data per second here's a nose 100,000
bits each and your tongue just one
thousand the human brain is 73% water
just like your heart that's why if your
brain loses even 2% of liquid you start
feeling exhausted this also makes your
memory get worse shortens your attention
span and puts a dampener on your mood if
you ever wondered about other organs
your lungs are 83% water your skin
contains 64% water mussels and kidneys
79% even your bones have some water
inside about 31%
it's hard to tell how many organs people
have because scientists still argue
about what to call an organ that's why
when some researchers claimed they had
discovered a new organ the mesentery not
everyone was happy the mesentery is a
fan-shaped full that holds the guts in
place people know about it for centuries
but only several years ago it became
clear how large and important that thing
was talk about newly discovered organs
there's also the interstitial experts
still argue about the proper name and
whether the thing can be called an organ
at all anyway until recently no one knew
about these fluid-filled pockets that
are scattered all over your body from
muscles to the skin and digestive system
these pockets work as shock absorbers
for all the bits you have inside when
someone's lying their own nose gives
them away psychologists from the
University of Granada discovered that
when a person told a lie the temperature
around their nose and in the inner
corners of their eyes went up this
phenomenon was dub any guesses the
Pinocchio effect the hippocampus is part
of your brain that helps you navigate in
space you have two of them each the size
of a chestnut London cab drivers have
bigger hippocampus and most other people
researchers are sure it's thanks to
their regular mental workout it's not a
gimme
to navigate 60,000 London streets
without GPS your brain makes sure you
don't drink too little or too much water
almost right after you drink something
your mouth and throat start to fire
signals to your brain telling it to stop
drinking otherwise you'd keep gulping
down water for the entire 10 to 60
minutes it takes the liquid to get to
your cells there's likely to be one more
previously unknown organ in the human
body it looks like a mesh-like web of
cells inside your skin these cells cover
nerve ending
and might be the reason you can feel
pain the fattiest organ in your body is
your brain that makes up at least 60% of
its dry way it even got the brain to the
Guinness World Records
no wonder the thing contains about 25%
of your body's cholesterol this
substance is vital for the brain without
it this organ wouldn't survive people
who live to be 110 years and older
also known as super centenarians may
have a secret researchers have
discovered they have more immune cells
called T helpers than the average person
these cells are likely to protect people
from viruses and other health problems
until all not so long ago it was
believed that people got born with a
definite number of brain cells and this
number couldn't be changed but recently
scientists have figured out that the
brain does change throughout its life it
grows new cells via a process called
neurogenesis scientists have always
thought that the human brain is a
sterile place free of germs or bacteria
but the latest studies show experts
might have been wrong all along it seems
there are harmless microbes living in
our brains but researchers need a bit
more time to make sure human bones might
be loaded with a network of tiny tunnels
scientists knew nothing about them until
recently that's why it was unclear how
blood cells which are produced in our
bones could quickly exit the bones and
get into the blood circulation but now
the mystery may be finally solved if
there are holes there can also be
capillaries miniature blood vessels the
human brain is sometimes called a random
thought generator for a reason more than
48 thoughts appear in your brain in just
one minute it's almost three thousand
thoughts per hour and 69 thousand per
day
we've become impressive multitaskers
thanks to technology or rather it only
seems so the human brain can't
concentrate on two things at once
what it can do is switch between several
tasks really fast but it makes your
attention span shorter and harms your
short-term memory and the ability to
learn blinking helps you keep your eyes
clean and moist but that's not all every
time you blink you also have a micro nap
researchers from Washington University
have found out that blinking makes your
attention sharper and works as a tiny
recharge a single neuron an itsy-bitsy
building block of your nervous system
sends from 300 to 1000 impulses every
second which is up to 60,000 impulses
per minute the average person has around
86 billion neurons in their brain which
is not as many as scientists previously
believed and still it means at least 26
trillion signals travel through your
brain every second Wow your brain can
decide what sounds to focus on when
you're in a loud place thanks to this
ability you can shut out all other
voices and concentrate on the person
you're listening to you keep in memory
more faces than you can imagine up to
ten thousand it varies from person to
person but the average number is five
thousand faces it doesn't mean that you
have to put a name to the face
recognizing it is enough your body emits
faint but visible light in other words
you do glow you're the brightest at
around 3:00 to 4:00 p.m. and your glow
is the least visible in the morning at
10 a.m. the problem is that this glowing
is a thousand times less intense than
what your eyes can see
scientists have figured out that you
might be this good at hearing things
thanks to a teeny jello violin
inside your ear there's a miniature
assembly line of nerves tissues fibers
and bones
it turns vibrations into sounds and
there's also a blob of jelly like
substance made up of 97% water
researchers believe that thanks to this
jello your ear can separate high
frequencies from lower ones there are
more than 650 skeletal muscles in your
body they make up around 40% of your
body weight up to 85 percent of the heat
your body produces comes from your
muscles contracting at the same time
caterpillars have many more muscles than
people some species up to four thousand
of them and the grasshopper has 900 your
hair tracks your sleeping patterns it
knows when you're sleeping it knows when
you're awake kind of like Santa Claus if
you wake up too early or go to bed very
late your hair will show it if your eyes
see something for a mere 13 milliseconds
and that's less time than you need to
blink it's enough for your brain to
process this image your fingers are
extremely sensitive they can feel
objects that are 13 nanometers across
that's around the width of a human hair
this way if your finger was the same
size as our planet you would still feel
the difference between cars and houses
[Music]
some people might be better at knowing
everything than others because of their
super effectively wired brains brain
scans have shown such individuals have
shorter and stronger connections between
brain cells but scientists haven't found
any links between more brain cells and
more general knowledge Millennials who
are now 24 to 40 years old are more
forgetful than previous generations it
keeps slipping their minds where they
put their car keys or what day of the
week it is such bouts of forgetfulness
happen to them more often than to their
parents
not so long ago researchers found
scientific proof to the phrase great
minds think alike
well kinda they discovered that close
friends had similar brain reactions
while watching unfamiliar videos but
it's still a mystery whether your
friends change the way you think or you
choose friends who think like you each
of your taste buds works as a
mini-computer it consists of up to 100
cells that analyze taste information
researchers believe that if people
suddenly started to be born with 6
fingers the brain would easily adapt to
it people with polydactyly extra fingers
or toes usually don't have any problems
their brains know how to control
additional fingers and can use each of
them independently such people sometimes
need only one hand to carry out a task
for which others would need two hands
chroma stiva is seeing colors when
you're listening to music it's a kind of
synesthesia a phenomenon when people
have several senses mixed some of them
perceive numbers in different colors
others can taste words people have more
than five basic senses don't forget
about the sense of space the sense of
pain the sense of balance and of time
the sense of temperature around and in
the body and many others your tongue
consists of eight intertwined muscles
the whole structure resembles an
elephant's trunk or an octopuses
tentacle just like them the tongue super
flexible and can move in any direction
good oh yes scientists think they may
have discovered the reason why some
people are born left-handed they've
analyzed 400,000 people and discovered
for genetic regions partially
responsible for the handedness three of
these regions are also connected with
the brain structure and development
especially in the areas that are in
charge of language
gall stones are made of calcium salt and
cholesterol but what glues all this
stuff together is your own white blood
cells they clump the material together
and with time it gets shaped into more
or less spherical objects without a
pinkie your hand would lose 50% of its
strength as for your feet it would be a
tough challenge to run or even walk
without a big toe it bears more than 40%
of your body's weight your blood
delivers oxygen to all parts of your
body with one exception
it's the cornea the front part of your
eye it absorbs oxygen right from the air
plus it's a part of your body that heals
the fastest most scratches are cuts
disappear in a day or two having a
bigger brain doesn't mean being smarter
the Neanderthals brains were 10% bigger
than those of the Homo sapiens but it
got them nowhere Albert Einstein's brain
on the other hand was 10% smaller than
the average but it had way more greater
neuron density plus the parts
responsible for processing space and
numbers were bigger in his brain your
teeth are the only part of your body
that can't repair itself but the enamel
they're covered with is one of the
toughest things in the human body
there's a thingy in your brain that's
responsible for your sense of smell it's
called the olfactory bulb interestingly
a tiny percent of women who for some
reason lack this bulb can still perceive
all smells without any problems
scientists haven't figured out what
makes it possible yet after growing
several human tastes cells in the lab
scientists found out that they had an
ability to smell in each one of them
there were a few molecules similar to
the ones found in the cells in your nose
as white taste cells reacted to odor
molecules just like smell cells do it
means our senses of smell and taste are
even more connected than we thought
before
your skeletal cells never stop
regenerating it means you get an
entirely new skeleton every 10 years or
so this process slows down with age and
the regeneration takes longer that's one
of the main reasons why bones become
thinner researchers have found a way to
cure memory loss caused by different
illnesses the latest studies have shown
that safe and extremely weak electric
currents can boost the brains natural
ability to heal itself during the
experiments some brain areas started to
communicate with each other in a
different way it improves short-term
memory for up to 50 minutes people can't
swallow and breathe at the same time the
food you swallow and the air you breathe
go down the same part of your throat at
first only a bit deeper the passage
splits into the esophagus for food and
liquid and trachea for air when you
swallow your airway gets automatically
closed off it prevents you from
accidentally inhaling food people are
the only creatures on earth
equipped with chins and scientists are
still puzzling over this mystery the
theories why humans evolved this way
vary from chins helping us to chew food
to their important role in speaking the
average person has 250 hairs per eyebrow
but some of us can grow 1,100 eyebrow
hairs in total eyebrows play an
important role they prevent rain and
sweat from getting in your eyes and
their arch shape makes the liquid slide
along the sides of your face half of all
the genes stored in your DNA keep
encoded information about your brain but
this organ takes up just 2% of your body
weight the remaining 98 percent of your
body information is stored in the other
50% of the genes
even though it's still a mystery why we
dream scientists might have understood
how we do it
Japanese researchers discover two genes
that are essential for the rim which is
rapid eye movement stage of sleep and
that's exactly when dreams occur mice
without these genes didn't have REM
sleep no REM sleep no dreams scientists
have recently discovered a new type of
brain cell they're super important for
visual search think I called target
cells without their help you wouldn't be
able to spot a friend in a crowd a
certain building on the street or your
dog in the park
curiously target cells don't care what
the thing you're searching for looks
like all they want to know is whether an
object is the target or not in 2016
researchers figured out the four genes
that are in charge of people's nose
shapes in particular their pointyness
and width one side of your body has more
blood vessels than the other
that's why hair and nails on that side
get more nutrition and grow faster there
are two to five million sweat glands on
your body the sweat they produce is of
two different kinds stress sweat and
regular sweat the sweat caused by stress
has fatty acids and proteins in it and
the regular sweat is mostly made up of
water salt and a tiny bit of other
substances all muscles in your body are
connected to bones at two ends it helps
them pull and create motion your tongue
is the only exception on one side is
connected to part of your neck but on
the other side there's nothing perhaps
it's what's responsible for gossip also
called wagging tongues just saying some
of the bacteria that live in your gut
can produce electricity they can give
off electrons and it creates tiny
electrical currents this is likely to be
the bacteria's backup system their way
to generate energy
figure nails grow faster on the dominant
hand if you use your right hand more
you'll have to trim nails on it more
often finger nails also grow more
quickly in the summer and during the day
your eyes keep taking separate pictures
and moving all the time otherwise they
won't be able to provide you with a
complete image you don't notice these
movements because your brain is a great
video editor it stabilizes the pictures
and connects different fragments into
one smooth flow and finally sneezing
makes people happy when you sneeze your
body releases endorphins